---
layout: default
title: tree trimming
permalink: /tree-trimming-denver/
nav: true
nav_order: 2
sitemap: true
profile:
  align: right
  image: # prof_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
---

<div> <p>Whether it's unruly bushes, trees ready for a trim, or concerns about a tree's health, 5280 Tree Care is equipped to handle the task. Specializing in professional tree trimming and pruning, we understand the issues posed by excessive growth, including its unsightly appearance and potential for liability. Trees that are dead, uneven, or have structural weaknesses can present serious concern and risk to both safety and property.</p> <p>Corrective pruning involves detecting and eliminating those branches whose condition may be described as unhealthy, damaged, or structurally defective. It not only reduces disease but also reduces weight on heavy limbs, thus improving the structure of the tree. With judiciously selected branches trimmed or removed, the growth of your trees is better prepared to resist damage from storms, gets a better opening in the canopy for sunlight penetration and air movement, and retains a natural, aesthetic form.</p> <p>From a purely aesthetic point of view, the primary goal of tree pruning is to maintain the tree's shape or size to ensure it harmonizes with the surrounding landscape. This technique is employed to enhance the aesthetic appeal of your property and promote the health and fruit production of fruit-bearing trees.</p> <p>Knowing that no tree is identical to another, 5280 Tree Care takes pride in having prepared a custom plan for each job of trimming or pruning that we do—prepared specifically to benefit that particular tree and your property. Our resolve is to use the best of methods and techniques, ensuring that your trees remain a vibrant and valuable part of your landscape for years to come.</p> <p><strong>Deadwooding</strong></p> <p>Deadwooding is the process of removal of dead, dying, or diseased branches from the tree. This practice is very necessary to maintain the tree, its surroundings, and the environment around them in a safe, healthy manner. At 5280 Tree Care, we specialize in finding the branches that are supposed to be removed to keep decay organisms out of your tree and reduce the risk of falling branches.</p> <p>This helps in maintaining the structural integrity of the tree to be able to resist whatever adverse weather conditions, without posing threats to both life and estate as well as to other surrounding vegetation. Deadwooding would also enhance the appearance of the tree and contribute greatly to an improvement in overall aesthetics on your property.</p> <p><strong>Crown Density Reduction</strong></p> <p>Crown density reduction is a special type of pruning applied to decrease the density of the tree crown in such a way as to reduce the wind resistance and storm damage hazards. Thinning represents a selective removal of branches throughout the crown, in order to enhance the penetration of light to the inner parts of the tree and promote air circulation. Our arborists are well-trained professionals who know how to thin out crown density while ensuring the natural shape of your tree is not compromised but rather facilitated for healthy development.</p> <p>Trimming the shrubs serves to maintain the aesthetic value of your landscape, but at the same time, it promotes health and vigor in the shrubs. 5280 Tree Care offers professional services for the trimming of your shrubs. The aim is to shape plants, eliminate overgrowth, and dead branches while encouraging fuller, robust growth.</p> <p><strong>Cabling/Bracing</strong></p> <p>Cabling and bracing are the most vital services provided by 5280 Tree Care to structurally strengthen any weak trees or those trees that have already been damaged. These techniques include installing cables or braces to support the tree, redistributing weight to reduce the tendency to fail, and/or preventing further damage or potential failure. Our arborists are qualified professionals who can help decide on the best course in any given situation, provided that the structural condition of the tree is maintained and that the natural appearance of the tree is retained to the greatest extent.</p> </div>